.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii ArrayStack.3adt
.\"
.TH ArrayStack 3adt "August 2021" "University of Oregon" ADTs
.SH NAME
ArrayStack ADT man page
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include "ADTs/arraystack.h"
.sp
const Stack *st = ArrayStack(long capacity,
.br
                             void (*freeValue)(void *e));
.sp
const Stack *st = Stack_create(void (*freeValue)(void *e));
.sp
const Stack *st->create(st);
.sp
void st->destroy(st);
.sp
void st->clear(st);
.sp
bool st->push(st, void *element);
.sp
bool st->pop(st, void **element);
.sp
bool st->peek(st, void **element);
.sp
bool st->isEmpty(st);
.sp
long st->size(st);
.sp
void **st->toArray(st, long *len);
.sp
const Iterator *st->itCreate(st);
.SH DESCRIPTION
ArrayStack() creates an array-based stack with the specified
.br
`capacity';
if `capacity' == 0L, a default initial capacity (50 elements) is used.
If the push() method is invoked when the array is full, the array is
dynamically resized.
`freeValue' is a function pointer that will be called by
destroy() and clear() on each entry in the stack.
If you are storing basic data types in the ArrayStack, you should
specify `doNothing'; if you are storing pointers to heap-allocated values
created using `malloc()' or `strdup()', you should specify free; if the values
you are storing have more complicated relationships to the heap, you should
specify the name of a function you have created to return the heap allocations
associated with a value in the ArrayStack.
Returns a pointer to the dispatch table, or NULL if there are malloc() errors.
.sp
Stack_create() creates a stack;
`freeValue' is as for the ArrayStack() constructor described above.
Returns a pointer to the dispatch table, or NULL if there are malloc() errors.
.sp
The create() method creates a new stack using the same implementation and
`freeValue' pointer as
`st'; returns NULL if error creating the new stack.
.sp
The destroy() method destroys the stack.
It applies the constructor-specified freeValue() to each element
in the stack before returning heap storage associated with the
Stack instance to the heap.
.sp
The clear() method clears all elements from the stack.
It applies the constructor-specified freeValue() to each element
in the stack.
Upon return, the stack is empty.
.sp
The push() method pushes `element' onto the stack; if no more room in the
stack, it is dynamically resized.
The method return value is true if successful, false if malloc() error.
.sp
The pop() method pops the element at the top of the stack into
.br
`*element'.
The method return value is true if successful, false if the stack was empty.
.sp
The peek() method copies the element at the top of the stack into `*element'
without removing the element from the stack.
The method return value is true if successful, false if the stack was empty.
.sp
The isEmpty() method returns true if the stack is empty, 0 if not.
.sp
The size() method returns the number of elements in the stack.
.sp
The toArray() method returns a heap-allocated array containing the
elements in the stack in the order top to bottom;
it returns the number of elements in the array in `*len'.
The method return value is a pointer to an array of void * elements, or NULL
if malloc failure OR IF THE STACK IS EMPTY.
.br
N.B. The caller is responsible for freeing the array of void * elements when
finished with it.
.sp
The itCreate() method creates an Iterator to the contents of the stack.
The iterator returns the stack elements in the order top to bottom.
The method return value is a pointer to the Iterator so created, or NULL
if malloc failure OR IF THE STACK IS EMPTY.
.br
N.B. The caller is responsible for destroying the iterator when finished with
it.
.SH FILES
/usr/local/include/ADTs/arraystack.h, /usr/local/include/ADTs/stack.h
.br
/usr/local/lib/libADTs.a
.SH AUTHOR
Joe Sventek <jsventek@gmail.com>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
Intro(3adt), Stack(3adt), LListStack(3adt), Iterator(3adt)

