.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii ArrayQueue.3adt
.\"
.TH ArrayQueue 3adt "August 2021" "University of Oregon" ADTs
.SH NAME
ArrayQueue ADT man page
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include "ADTs/arrayqueue.h"
.sp
const Queue *q = ArrayQueue(long capacity,
.br
                            void (*freeValue)(void *e));
.sp
const Queue *q = Queue_create(void (*freeValue)(void *e));
.sp
const Queue *q->create(q);
.sp
void q->destroy(q);
.sp
void q->clear(q);
.sp
bool q->enqueue(q, void *element);
.sp
bool q->dequeue(q, void **element);
.sp
bool q->front(q, void **element);
.sp
bool q->isEmpty(q);
.sp
long q->size(q);
.sp
void **q->toArray(q, long *len);
.sp
const Iterator *q->itCreate(q);
.SH DESCRIPTION
ArrayQueue() creates an array-based queue of the specified initial `capacity';
if `capacity' == 0L, is uses a default capacity (50L);
If the array is full when enqueue() is invoked, the array is dynamically resized.
`freeValue' is a function pointer that will be called by
destroy() and clear() on each entry in the queue.
If you are storing basic data types in the ArrayQueue, you should
specify `doNothing'; if you are storing pointers to heap-allocated values
created using `malloc()' or `strdup()', you should specify free; if the values
you are storing have more complicated relationships to the heap, you should
specify the name of a function you have created to return the heap allocations
associated with a value in the ArrayQueue.
Returns a pointer to the dispatch table, or NULL if there are malloc() errors.
.sp
Queue_create() creates a queue;
`freeValue' is as per the ArrayQueue() argument.
Returns a pointer to the dispatch table, or NULL if there are malloc() errors.
.sp
The create() method creates a new queue using the same implementation
and `freeValue' function pointer as `q'; returns NULL if error creating the new queue.
.sp
The destroy() method destroys the queue.
It applies the constructor-specified freeValue() to each element
in the queue before returning heap storage associated with the
Queue instance to the heap.
.sp
The clear() method clears all elements from the queue.
It applies the constructor-specified freeValue() to each element
in the queue.
Upon return, the queue is empty.
.sp
The enqueue() method enqueues `element' onto the tail of the queue;
if no more room in the
queue, it is dynamically resized.
The method return value is true if successful, false if malloc() error.
.sp
The dequeue() method dequeues the element at the head of the queue into
.br
`*element'.
The method return value is true if successful, false if the queue was empty.
.sp
The front() method copies the element at the head of the queue into `*element'
WITHOUT removing the element from the queue.
The method return value is true if successful, false if the queue was empty.
.sp
The isEmpty() method returns true if the queue is empty, false if not.
.sp
The size() method returns the number of elements in the queue.
.sp
The toArray() method returns a heap-allocated array containing the
elements in the queue in the order head to tail;
it returns the number of elements in the array in `*len'.
The method return value is a pointer to an array of void * elements, or NULL
if malloc failure OR IF THE QUEUE IS EMPTY.
.br
N.B. The caller is responsible for freeing the array of void * elements when
finished with it.
.sp
The itCreate() method creates an Iterator to the contents of the queue.
The iterator returns the queue elements in the order head to tail.
The method return value is a pointer to the Iterator so created, or NULL
if malloc failure OR IF THE QUEUE IS EMPTY.
.br
N.B. The caller is responsible for destroying the iterator when finished with
it.
.SH FILES
/usr/local/include/ADTs/arrayqueue.h, /usr/local/include/ADTs/queue.h
.br
/usr/local/lib/libADTs.a
.SH AUTHOR
Joe Sventek <jsventek@gmail.com>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
Intro(3adt), Queue(3adt), LListQueue(3adt), Iterator(3adt)
