.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii LListCSKMap.3adt
.\"
.TH LListCSKMap 3adt "August 2021" "University of Oregon" ADTs
.SH NAME
C String Key LListMap ADT man page
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include "ADTs/llistcskmap.h"
.sp
const CSKMap *m = LListCSKMap(void (*freeValue(void *v));
.sp
const CSKMap *CSKMap_create(void (*freeValue)(void *v));
.sp
const CSKMap *m->create(m);
.sp
void m->destroy(m);
.sp
void m->clear(m);
.sp
bool m->containsKey(m, char *key);
.sp
bool m->get(m, char *key, void **value);
.sp
bool m->put(m, char *key, void *value);
.sp
bool m->putUnique(m, char *key, void *value);
.sp
bool m->remove(m, char *key);
.sp
bool m->isEmpty(m);
.sp
long m->size(m);
.sp
char **m->keyArray(m, long *len);
.sp
MEntry **m->entryArray(m, long *len);
.sp
const Iterator *m->itCreate(m);
.SH DESCRIPTION
LListCSKMap() creates a linked list map in which the keys are C strings.
`freeValue' is a function pointer that will be called by
destroy(), clear(), remove(), and put() on each relevant entry/entries in the
map. If you are storing basic data types in the CSKMap, you should
specify `doNothing'; if you are storing pointers to heap-allocated values
created using `malloc()' or `strdup()', you should specify free; if the values
you are storing have more complicated relationships to the heap, you should
specify the name of a function you have created to return the heap allocations
associated with a value in the CSKMap.
The implementations of put() and putUnique() make copies of `key' for storage
in the linked list.
The return value is a pointer to the CSKMap dispatch table, or NULL if there
are malloc errors.
.sp
CSKMap_create() creates a linked list map in which the keys are C strings.
`freeValue' is as for the `LListCSKMap()' constructor described above.
The implementations of put() and putUnique() make copies of `key' for storage
in the linked list.
The return value is a pointer to the CSKMap dispatch table, or NULL if there
are malloc errors.
.sp
The create() method creates a new map using the same implementation and
`freeValue' pointer as the
map upon which the method has been invoked;
returns NULL if error creating the new map.
.sp
The destroy() method destroys the map.
It applies the constructor-specified freeValue() to each element
in the map before returning heap storage associated with the
CSKMap instance to the heap.
.sp
The clear() method clears all elements from the map.
It applies the constructor-specified freeValue() to each element
in the map.
Upon return, the map is empty.
.sp
The containsKey() method returns true if `key' is contained in the map, false
if not.
.sp
The get() method returns the value associated with `key' in `*value'.
The method return value is true if `key' is in the map, false if not.
.sp
The put() method puts (`key',`value') into the map;
applies constructor-specified freeValue() if there was a previous
entry associated with `key'.
The method return value is true if successful, false if not.
.sp
The putUnique() method puts (`key',`value') into the map if and only if the map
does not already have an entry associated with `key'.
The method return value is true if successful, false if not.
.sp
The remove() method removes (`key',`value') from the map;
applies constructor-specified freeValue() to the removed entry.
The method return value is true if present and removed, false if not present.
.sp
The isEmpty() method returns true if the array list is empty, false if not.
.sp
The size() method returns the number of elements in the array list.
.sp
The keyArray() method returns a heap-allocated array containing the
keys in the map; the order of the keys in the array is arbitrary;
it returns the number of elements in the array
in `*len'.
The method return value is a pointer to an array of char * elements, or NULL
if malloc failure OR IF THE MAP IS EMPTY.
.br
N.B. The caller is responsible for freeing the array of char * elements when
finished with it.
.sp
The entryArray() method returns a heap-allocated array containing the
(key,value) entries in the map; the order of the entries in the array is
arbitrary;
it returns the number of entries in the array in `*len'.
The method return value is a pointer to an array of MEntry * elements, or NULL
if malloc failure OR IF THE MAP IS EMPTY.
.br
N.B. The caller is responsible for freeing the array of MEntry * elements when
finished with it.
.sp
The itCreate() method creates an Iterator to the entries in the map.
The order in which the entries are returned by Iterator.next() is arbitrary.
The method return value is a pointer to the Iterator so created, or NULL
if malloc failure OR IF THE MAP IS EMPTY.
.br
N.B. The caller is responsible for destroying the iterator when finished with
it.
.SH FILES
/usr/local/include/ADTs/llistcskmap.h, /usr/local/include/ADTs/cskmap.h
.br
/usr/local/lib/libADTs.a
.SH AUTHOR
Joe Sventek <jsventek@gmail.com>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
Intro(3adt), CSKMap(3adt), Map(3adt), HashCSKMap(3adt), HashMap(3adt), LListMap(3adt), Iterator(3adt)
